This is our "Primordial Wisdom". We are talking "Primordial Wisdom".
In the general Buddhist of teaching in the Mahayana Sutra, the teachings are known as "Definite
Meaning" as we discussed yesterday.
Definite Meaning teaching, what is known as that? What Buddha, the greatest teacher, Buddha Chakra
Munnaen for that.
Known as "Athaka Dangarbha", Buddha Nature. That is Definite Meaning.
"Athaka Dangarbha", "Primordial Wisdom", why you call Definite Meaning? It is never going to change
. Never going to change anything.
And for that reason, what is it? In teaching, no matter what things happened in the universe and
beyond, what really happened, the nature is never going to change.
And for that reason, the great Master Kumbha said, "Even we go through the six realms, even we take
the birds through the four channels of the birds, birds."
But "Primordial Wisdom" remains the same. Nothing happens. That is the "Primordial Muslim" or the "
Buddha Nature".
How is that "Buddha Nature" or how is that "Primordial Muslim"? Whatever terminology we use.
But in the Dzogki teaching, use the old and inherited "Primordial Wisdom".
So "Primordial Wisdom" is what? It's pure from the beginning. It's pure from the beginning.
And that was teaching said, for example, Samadhi Rata Sutras, even in Mahayana Sutras, "Primordial
Wisdom" or the "Buddha Nature" is pure, clear, undisturbed, cannot be disturbed.
In the end, it's uncompounded. It's not compounded. It's uncompounded.
That is the quality of the "Primordial Wisdom". It's pure, clean, pristine and brilliant.
That is "Primordial Wisdom". That "Primordial Wisdom", we are not talking "Primordial Wisdom" of
the Buddha or "Primordial Wisdom" of the Buddha, Samadhi Rata Sutras.
Great Buddha Chaitanya Muni is pointing out of each of us. Our "Nature of Mind" is that.
Your "Nature of Mind" or the "Primordial Wisdom", that is what the explanation is.
And my "Primordial Wisdom", that is what the explanation of this teaching is. That is what it is.
That is uncompounded. How that "Nature" is, in the Dzogchen said, it is naturally liberated, pure,
different ways.
Naturally liberated, if I use that "Liberated" terminology, "Nature" is pure, pure, pure, pure,
And for those poor, poor viewers or poor "Liberated", these ordinary "Liberated" and sub-liberated
and instantly liberated and free from the extreme or liberated from any boundaries, boundaries.
All these "Liberated" are used in another terminology. Just maybe easy understanding.
Pure, ordinary pure, sub-purity and instantly pure and never bounded. Anything is completely,
always pure in every direction.
If that is the direction, any direction, that is how this "Primordial" your wisdom and my wisdom is
.
This is what it is. What is it? So that is how it is in the teaching said.
That "Primordial" wisdom, the original wisdom is never deluded by any means of the samsara
situations.
That "Primordial" wisdom is never deluded by any means of the samsara situations.
And therefore nothing's "Primordial" is affected. Never, for that reason, is known as "Organally
liberated".
All liberated from the beginning, from the very beginning, is liberated.
And then these are sub-liberatives. And then these two, again, when we are liberated,
it's not something liberated by some other antidote that is making liberation or some other object
that is making help.
It is sub-liberated. Sub-liberated. What even that is also, it is naturally is there, naturally
liberated.
But at the same time, this prison time, what even thoughts, what even arises is incidentally sub-
What even arises thoughts through our six senses, conceptions, poems, hearing, smell, taste, touch.
What even that is instantly liberated by itself.
Every don't grasping, every don't clinging onto that. It's naturally liberated.
As I think we said three times yesterday, it's come from the Dharmakaya.
It's displayed in the Dharmakaya for the great emptiness. It merges back to that emptiness.
It's just instantly all that happened by itself. We don't have to do anything extra effort or bring
some other tools trying to liberate it.
For that reason, and as in using the Dokki teachings, as snack untied by snack themselves.
Self is not something that we have to do. It's just instant.
And then third one, this Raghwai is instantly liberated or that negative liberations, negative
liberations.
The moment we see as a subject object, when we see something as object, that moment, if you look to
your awareness, that instantly is liberated.
You look to that lookers, for example. When you look into the object, means you look to the lookers
.
That moment already is liberated. That instant. So it's a negative imperative.
It's instantly, there is no subject or object to be awakened.
It's instantly that creed, that conceptual is a creed. Pre-liberated. And that is known as negative
liberation.
Then, this Raghwai is free from or liberated from any means of the, any space and times.
Raghwai is not based on time. It's not abiding in the past or it's not abiding in the present.
It's not abiding in the boundary of the future. It's out three times.
And also Raghwai is out three from all the spaces or pretty any areas. There's no boundaries at all
.
Raghwai is totally free. Therefore, it is known as free from every corners or every edge or every
extremes.
It's totally free. That is the call and nature of the Raghwai. That is the nature of the Raghwai.
Again, Raghwai is we are talking about our own nature of the Raghwai.
Our own nature. That is about how it is. How it is.
And this is now, when you understand that, then with great confidence, how are we going to activate
that?
How are we going to activate that? This.
And that activates. Now, that original Raghwai, the original basic primordial wisdom,
is another terminology in the Dzokhi teaching known as ordinal summoner-buddhas.
That is the Buddha summoner-buddhas. Absolute ordinal Buddha summoner-buddhas.
Buddha summoner-buddhas is again another terminology we use again as opposed to here.
Also use summoner-buddhas. Otherwise, dharmakaya. That is absolute dharmakaya.
In the Dzokhi teaching, summoner-buddhas is dharmakaya.
Dharmakaya Buddha. Dharmakaya has, summoner-buddhas has great food to stop doing it.
But this time, it is ordinal basic Buddha summoner-buddhas.
And that basic Buddha summoner-buddhas or ordinal dharmakaya is primordial wisdom.
That is what we said. So many times throughout the teaching, see.
That primordial wisdom of our Raghwai is, nature is how? It is unimpeded.
Unimpeded. That is again, it is to your own, our mind.
And it is ordinal nature. When you behold that,
or when you are understanding that, intellectually, as it is to your own, natural mind,
when you see that, that is known as, now you got it. You got it.
That is called, you got it. That is true. Then you got it.
Who got it? You got it. Come by yourself.
That is known as, pointing out on the Dzokhi teaching, three words of the karabdron.
Karabdron, he said, then you got it. That is it. There is nothing more go.
More order to go than that. If you are trying to go further more,
then we are falling back to the ditch of the samsara in the duality wars.
Simply relax on that. That is known as, more rattle through in it a bit.
You discover it by yourself through the assessment of the teachings.
When you recognize that, when you got it there,
that is not depicted by the object, that is not depicted by the subject.
That has nothing to do with the exact, except in the reactions.
It is ordinal nature, exactly as simple as it is.
It is, that is what it is. And this is called ordinal bastance.
That is what you call, then may have the confidence.
Confidence on this. You don't have to linger in some, that this might be this might.
All this is, is delaying, delaying our discovery.
All is withholding, then in the ditch. Those are known as detours.
Have you tried to figure this, figure that, all that? It is deterring.
Even we think we are doing better, but we are really deterring, conceptions.
Therefore, is what the second garabdoli war is, have the decisive, decisive decisions with full of,
of confidence.
Enjoy when you discover, be that status, don't linger, and start linger this and that.
This detour, deterring your deviating of your directions, or our directions, directions, directions
.
And then, with this, when you have that confidence, confidence,
and then, whatever is arising is within the nature, within the dharmakaya status.
Whatever is arising is dharmakaya. What is happening is dharmakaya.
And therefore, we don't have to worry these and their things.
And therefore, that reason, when teaching many times, let it come, let it be, and let it go.
Good. Simply relax on that.
And that is then known as, instantly, concentrating or liberating everything as it arises.
And that also means, not blocking something, not providing the expression, the power of the purpose
.
Nor are we going to invoke the power of the purpose.
Exactly should be as it is. And relaxing in that natural state.
And that is known as, three words of God ability above the two practices.
Very essential, like that.
So then, once you discover that, and then, now, you have to continually maintain.
Keep up that is known as meditation.
There is nothing else meditation than the keeping of what you discover.
The discover. And when you discover, do the meditation, exactly the same thing as I said.
With the mind second, space section.
Same thing, with full of devotions, both each other, joy and appreciation.
And as well, as well as those four renoms and thoughts. Really, worry that.
And then, practice meditation. In the post meditation, also very poor, humble, simple.
Don't interrupt. Try to develop more common senses. Common senses.
And really, appreciation. And poor thoughts. And observing those samayas.
And then, as well as samaya, there is guided samayas and unguided samayas.
So, guided samaya is more in time of the, more in the post meditators.
Meditation state. Try to observe those as much as you can.
And then, occasionally, also applying to, you have the culpability of realization of exactly as it
is.
And then, unguided. Unguided also. Those samayas, you can apply that to reinforce, strengthen of
the guided samayas.
So, that is how, during the practicing of the tattoo brilliant.
And many of you, of course, you all know practicing.
So, this is some dead, but however, so this is what, when we started this.
That's really about this tattoo, you know, way to practice this.
And then, we talked a little more about that, how to meditate.
Those are the teaching here, making, those, for abiding, poor techniques.
Those, let me discuss. We discussed. And that's my brief talk today, for today, and we start.